Statistical grammars
can help us even more.
In our example up to this point, we used
a simple grammar, a pronoun, verb and
noun.
And that placed a strong
limit of were we started and
ended in our Viterbi trellis.
>> But in real life,
language is not so well segmented.
Instead, we can record large amounts
of language and affirm in the fraction
of times need follows I, versus want
following I, or want following we.
>> We can then use these probabilities
to help bias our recognition
based on the expected distribution
of the co-occurrence of these signs.
In practice,
using a statistical grammar divides
the error rate by another factor of 4.
We started with a fundamental
error rate of E.
When we used context training,
we divide in half.
And now with statistical grammars, we're
dividing it by a factor of 4 again.
So, basically, we end up with
our error rate divided by 8.
This trick is one of the secret
weapons in my research.
I look for problems that might
have a language-like structure and
then apply these techniques to get my
error rate down to something reasonable.